Skip to content

Menu


Recipes

Appetizers


Beverages


Breakfast


Casserole


Copycat Recipes


Cookies


Seafood


Side Dishes


Soup




Desserts


Dinner


Crockpot Recipes


About Us

Privacy Policy


Terms and Conditions


Contact Us








Home


›

Recipe Roundup


›

20 African Recipes to Try at Home


20 African Recipes to Try at Home

Last Updated on: June 9, 2022




Share



Pin



Email





When it comes to
African recipes

, you’re guaranteed heat, color, and incredible flavor.

From one-pan chicken dishes to vibrant couscous, this cuisine needs to be part of your weekly routine.

Want to save this recipe? Enter your email below and we'll send the recipe straight to your inbox!


If you are a human seeing this field, please leave it empty.











Of course, you can adjust the spices in almost every one of these recipes, making them a little milder if that’s what you prefer.

If you like your food filling, colorful, and a little exotic, then there’s something for you here. I stopped at 20 African recipes, but there are so many more out there.

Once you get the taste, I know you’ll want to try them all!

1. African Chicken (Macanese One-Pan Chicken Curry)


I can’t get over how good this chicken and potato dish is!

Needless to say, the combination of oyster sauce, curry powder, coconut milk, and peanut butter is to die for.

It’s sweet, savory, nutty, and has a smoky spice from the paprika.

2. BEST Moroccan Chicken Recipe


Not only is this delicious dish loaded with olives, warm Moroccan spices, lemons, and dried fruit, it’s also a one-pot wonder, making clean-up a breeze.

The spice rub is the key to the amazing flavors, and for that fall-off-the-bone chicken, you’ll be cooking it right in the sauce.

3. Moroccan Couscous with Roasted Vegetables Chick Peas and Almonds


Couscous makes for such a nice change to a rice or pasta side. It’s light, bursting with flavor, and super pretty.

This simple side can be ready in just 20 minutes and can be bulked out with anything from fresh chopped tomatoes to chickpeas.

4. Shakshuka


Shakshuka is almost like making a pasta sauce, except you’ll add a few extra spices and some eggs, which cook slowly right in the pan.

I make shakshuka when I have breakfast guests. It’s bright, tasty, and the eggs just look so great nestled in the tomato sauce. Serve it with crusty bread and dig in!

Want to save this recipe? Enter your email below and we'll send the recipe straight to your inbox!


If you are a human seeing this field, please leave it empty.











5. Easy Dukkah


I was first introduced to Dukkah in 2006 in Melbourne. It’s such a simple concept but so flavorful.

All you’ll need to do is blitz your choice of nuts – this recipe calls for walnuts and almonds – with sesame seeds, coriander, cumin, and salt and pepper.

Serve this with crusty bread and olive oil.

6. African Bean Stew


This might look like your average bean stew, but it’s so much more. For one thing, it has a coconut broth for added creaminess.

This dish is gorgeous, full of flavor, and vegan! Serve it up with a side of rice, or some of that couscous from before.

7. East Africa Mango Cucumber Salad


My love for mango runs deep, so if I see it in the title, you can bet I’m going to make it asap!

This simple salad is fresh, crunchy, and salty-sweet in the best way.

The mango gives wonderful sweetness to the mild cucumber along with a pop of color.

8. Vegetarian Peanut Soup


I’ve been trying to stick to my meatless Mondays for a while now, and with recipes like this, I might have to extend it into Tuesday!

This thick soup is quite like a stew, made with nutty peanut butter and tomato paste. It’s such a unique flavor profile that I honestly adore.

Your vegetarian friends will love you for this one.

9. Best Bobotie


Bobotie is like a meatloaf, except it has a touch of sweetness and a silky smooth milk and egg custard on top.

The beef is flavored with raisins, apricot jam, chutney, and curry powder before being covered in the egg mix.

10. Moroccan Forbidden Rice Salad


This dish is made using black rice, which has a fantastic chewy texture.

To go along with that, you’ll need to add drained and rinsed chickpeas, chopped dates, and pistachios.

Sweet, nutty, salty, and tossed in a lemon juice and olive oil dressing, it’s great with a rack of lamb or Moroccan chicken.

11. Easy Moroccan Vegetable Tagine Recipe


A tagine is a slow-cooked stew full of veggies and (usually) meat. Traditionally cooked in a
tagine pot

, this vegetable stew can be ready in just half an hour.

Of course, you can use a
Dutch oven

for this, or even a slow cooker. Cook until the potatoes are fork-tender and the sauce is vibrant and fragrant.

12. Authentic Niter Kibbeh (Ethiopian Spiced Clarified Butter)


Clarified butter is butter that has been slowly heated until the milk solids separate.

Once you scrape that away, you’re left with a beautiful, almost clear butter with a higher smoke point.

This recipe is similar, but for the inclusion of herbs and spices. Just add your spices to the pot to infuse the butter and strain it away with the milk solids.

13. Fried Plantains


The first time I had fried plantains, I was hooked! I don’t know if it was the texture, spice, or the fact that I helped make them, but they’re something I often turn to.

And they’re such an underrated snack in the States. If you’re afraid to try them, please don’t be!

All you’ll have to do is slice and fry! I like to sprinkle mine with sea salt and chili flakes once they’re just out of the pan.

14. Doro Wat – Ethiopian Chicken Curry


You’ll notice something in the ingredient list for this recipe that may or may not be familiar to you: Berbere. I, for one, hadn’t heard of it.

But it’s the start of this dish! If you can’t find it in the store (you might have to look online), try
making your own

! One taste, and you’ll use on everything.

15. Blender Chermoula Sauce


If you’re looking for something different for your next fish dish, this recipe is for you.

It has fresh herbs, garlic, lemon, and warm spices, making it similar to a chimichurri in some ways.

Just be careful when blending, and add the herbs right at the end to avoid bruising.

16. Moroccan Roasted Green Beans


Low carb and gluten-free, this is the kind of side you can whip up in a snap and really brighten any meal.

For that Moroccan feel, this recipe adds Ras el Hanout seasoning, a mix of everything from cinnamon and cardamom to cayenne and anise.

I highly recommend
making your own

if you can’t find it in the store.

17. East African Pilau


There’s nothing worse than a sad, unseasoned rice dish, and this recipe is anything but sad!

It’s not a simple rice side dish, but rather a hearty meal made with beef, potatoes, rice, and lots of spice.

18. Stewed Spinach (African Style)


Spinach is so versatile and a great way to get extra nutrients!

I love that this dish – which is filling enough to be a main course – uses spinach as the star, and not just an extra.

Seasoned with garlic, thyme, cayenne, paprika, and chicken stock, it also has shrimp and turkey bacon for good measure.

19. Homemade Harissa Recipe


Harissa is a bright and tasty paste or sauce that can be used to add flavor to a dish or as a dip for your fries.

I like mine quite spicy, but when making your own, you can easily adjust the heat.

20. Akwadu


Along with my love for mangoes, I also adore bananas. This quick little recipe is great for breakfast or dessert and can be ready in just half an hour.

When baked, the bananas will be bursting with sweet flavor and are perfect with a scoop of ice cream or whipped coconut cream.

Print






20 African Foods to Try at Home

Recipe by insanelygood

Course:
Recipes



Ingredients

African Chicken (Macanese One-Pan Chicken Curry)




BEST Moroccan Chicken Recipe




Moroccan Couscous with Roasted Vegetables Chick Peas and Almonds




Shakshuka




Easy Dukkah




African Bean Stew




East Africa Mango Cucumber Salad




Vegetarian Peanut Soup




Best Bobotie




Moroccan Forbidden Rice Salad




Easy Moroccan Vegetable Tagine Recipe




Authentic Niter Kibbeh (Ethiopian Spiced Clarified Butter)




Fried Plantains




Doro Wat – Ethiopian Chicken Curry




Blender Chermoula Sauce




Moroccan Roasted Green Beans




East African Pilau




Stewed Spinach (African Style)




Homemade Harissa Recipe




Akwadu






Directions

Select your favorite recipe.

Organize all the required ingredients.

Prep an African dish in 30 minutes or less!




Did you like the recipe?

Click on a star to rate it!

Submit Rating

Average rating
4.8

/ 5. Vote count:
6


No votes so far! Be the first to rate this post.


Thanks!

Share on social media:


We are sorry that this post was not useful for you!

Let us improve this post!

Tell us how we can improve this post?

Submit Feedback




Share



Pin



Email





Related posts

32 Easy Thai Recipes To Try at Home


17 Easy Thai Chicken Recipes To Try at Home


13 Rockfish Recipes to Try at Home


20 Traditional African Desserts


16 Easy Peruvian Desserts to Try at Home


25 Bengali Sweets to Try Making at Home








INSANELYGOOD


Hey there! I'm Kim. I love running, cooking, and curling up with a good book! I share recipes for people who LOVE good food, but want to keep things simple :)



Leave a Comment
Cancel reply



Comment


Name

Email

Website

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.








About Me


Hey There!

I’m Kim. I love running, cooking, and curling up with a good book! Here you’ll find simple and delicious recipes that you can make in 30 minutes or less.



KEEP IN TOUCH



Categories


670


Recipes



120


Chicken



842


Desserts



236


Breakfast



147


Copycat Recipes










FACEBOOK


TWITTER


PINTEREST





Insanely Good Recipes is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. We also participate in affiliate programs with Thrive Market, Shareasale, and other sites. We are compensated for referring traffic.

Copyright © 2020 InsanelyGoodRecipes.com – Quick & Easy Recipes
Privacy Policy

|
Terms and Conditions

|
Contact Us








© 2023 Insanely Good Recipes

• Built with
GeneratePress





Insanely Good Recipes
Data and Cookie Consent


In order to provide a more personal user experience, we and our partners use technology such as cookies to store and/or access device information.

By clicking “Accept” you consent to these technologies which will allow us and
our partners

to process non-sensitive data such as IP address, unique ID, and browsing data for the purposes of serving personalized ads and content, ad and content measurement, audience insights, and to develop and improve products.

Your choices on this site will be applied only for this site. You can change your settings at any time, including withdrawing your consent, by going to the
Privacy Policy

page of this site.


Manage Settings

Accept






Update Privacy Settings




